Downloaded from
YTS.MX
(relaxed trumpet music)
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
- [Narrator] An attorney called
him "a thug for the Lord."
His daughter dubbed him
"the rescue machine."
To those who loved him. he was a hero.
A tough. tenacious.
cantankerous. lovable hero.
A proud Marine who took the heart both on
and off the bench the motto.
"Leave no one behind".
To his critics. he was
a bleeding heart liberal
on the notorious Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals.
a would-be social engineer.
a judicial activist
who ruled with his heart
instead of his head.
He was a judge for over 50 years.
When he died still on the
bench at 94. it was said.
"In the field of law and public
interest. there are stars.
there are superstars and then
there's Harry Pregerson."
(relaxed violin music)
- This morning. Harry's family and I laid
his body to rest at the
VA Cemetery in Westwood.
We said Kaddish for
his soul and we laughed
at the certainty with
which we knew that Harry
after surveying his new surroundings
would have said. "It's about time.
I have always wanted to
live on the Westside."
(audience laughs)
That was Harry.
Funny as hell.
He did not care about
convention or much else.
other than living in the
best tradition of the Hebrew
prophets who railed against
oppression and hypocrisy
and stupidity and anything
or anyone that subverted
the rights of the poor or the
powerless or the vulnerable.
- We all recognize this. right?
This is the hardest thing
I've ever had to do.
First of all. I want to thank you all
for coming today to honor my dad.
I loved him so much.
I have to tell you. he was the best father
in the entire world and
I know you loved him too.
On the night that he passed
away. I sat in his office.
At first glance when you walk in.
it looks like Hurricane
Katrina just blew through it.
There are papers everywhere.
There's books everywhere.
pictures. mementos.
You name it. it's all stuffed into this
very messy office and
you could learn a lot
from him just studying
what was on those shelves.
As I went through his desk.
I found hundreds of letters.
handwritten notes and cards.
There were lots and lots of pictures.
mostly pictures of my
beautiful mother. Bern.
There were pictures of
my brother Dean and I.
the late Congressman
Jim Corman. who was very dear to him.
Pictures of guys he
served within the Marines
and finally pictures of
lots and lots of people
in this audience from the
Bell Shelter or the Courthouse
or any one of the hundreds
of charity events that
he was schlepping to almost
every night of the week.
If you really wanted to
understand what made my dad tick.
all you had to do was sit in that office.
- Robert Alton Harris was strapped
in a chair in the gas chamber.
The acid bath was filling beneath him
and then the telephone rang.
- [Newswoman] That's when Federal
Appeals Judge Harry Pregerson jumped in.
- Evidently Federal Courts have ruled
that San Diego County can
make welfare applicants
submit to unannounced
searches of their homes.
Bleeding heart judges
called San Diego's program
"shameful." an "attack on the poor."
One of them added "The government does not
search through the closets and medicine
cabinets of farmers receiving subsidies.
They do not dig through the
laundry baskets and garbage
pails of real estate developers
or radio broadcasters."
Of course not. because those
people aren't on welfare.
They receive corporate
subsidies. totally different.
The Federal Appeals Court
based in San Francisco has
refused to reinstate President
Trump's immigration order.
- [Newswoman] President Trump's travel ban
met its end at the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals.
- [Protesters] The people united-
- [Newswoman] By this
afternoon. the President
was telling The Washington
Examiner he would
absolutely consider breaking
up the Ninth Circuit.
- You go to the Ninth
Circuit and it's a disgrace
and I'm gonna put in a major complaint
because you cannot win.
if you're us. a case
in the Ninth Circuit and
I think it's a disgrace.
- [Harry] I'm not gonna sign
any order that's gonna have
the effect of kicking out of
this country kids who were
born here and who have the
birthright as American citizens.
I'm just not gonna do it because
I think it's morally wrong.
(soft piano music)
My father was born in the Ukraine
in a village called Kusrilla.
He came here about 1904
and he landed in Boston.
Ended up working in Chicago
and then the War came
and he was drafted in the American Army
and was in the Saint-Mihiel
and Meuse-Argonne
campaigns and he was badly wounded.
My mother came here as the young girl.
She lived in Philadelphia and worked
in one of the sweatshops
for like $3 a week.
They met here in Los Angeles.
(upbeat trumpet music)
It was up real hustling. bustling place.
People moving up and down the street.
the Five & Dime and the
pool halls. delicatessens.
creameries. bakeries. all the
great smells. the markets.
You had poultry stores where
the live chickens would running around.
We lived on Sea View Avenue
for the first 12 years
and it was heavily Jewish
but not completely.
There were many Japanese families.
Mexican families. Slavs. Italians.
It was heavily Italian too.
In grammar school. junior
high school. high school.
there was always an emphasis
on respect for others.
respect for others' cultural
backgrounds. religious beliefs.
This was emphasized.
In my high school. we had
52 different ethnic groups
but everybody got along and
that was very important.
- [Interviewer] Did you
experience any anti-Semitism?
- [Harry] These kids. I
think they were Mexican.
they asked me "Well. like what are you?"
So I said "I'm a boy."
"No. no. no. we want to know
whether you're a Jew or not."
I said "Yeah" and then they
wanted to know why I killed Christ.
Then I worked for The
Broadway in Pasadena.
That was a good job because
that paid like $5 a day.
I was there for a few days
and they found out I was
Jewish and they fired me.
- [Interviewer] That was
really your first experience?
- [Harry] That was the real
first experience. yeah.
- [Interviewer] When did you first
begin to think about being a lawyer?
- [Harry] Well. I think it
all came from my father.
He used to go and listen
to Darrow in Chicago.
He had Darrow's debates
on capital punishment
and from earliest childhood.
I knew I was gonna go to law school.
(upbeat carnival music)
I used to go to the Ocean Park Pier.
There were a lot of fishermen on the wharf
and this guy's caught a big one
and it's on the ground. so it's flopping.
I just ran over and threw
it back in the ocean.
Well the guy was mad as hell.
it was probably his supper.
So the guy starts to run after me.
But I just couldn't leave that boy alone.
He was a humanitarian. but
I'll never forget that.
- All of us were the
center of Harry's universe.
He made sure that I felt like
a girl who could do anything.
who was tough. who had the fortitude
to really take care of
myself. to weather any storm.
A turning point came when I was in
the seventh grade and my mom announced
that she was going back to
school to study microbiology.
Bern told Harry that he needed to step up
to the plate and assume
some responsibilities
of parenting and because
my dad was totally
helpless in the kitchen.
we went out every night.
Over dinner. he would tell me
what a mediocre student he was.
By far and away. the brightest
in the class were always the girls.
He'd say. "And what
happened to those girls?"
Well. those girls got
married out of high school.
they put their husbands through college
put 'em through graduate school.
raised the kids and then what happened?
Sometimes the husband would die.
Sometimes.
the husband would get bored
and the marriage would end in divorce
and it was too late for
the woman at that point
in her life to start
over and have a career.
It bothered him so much
that these women never had an opportunity
to really live up to their potential
and then he'd tell me. "That's why Katie.
you need to get a good education.
You need to be your own boss.
You need to make your own money.
You need to determine
your own destiny. even if
you're lucky enough to marry
the man of your dreams."
- What was it like to grow up with Harry?
Just imagine you're a barely
literate young teenager.
You are happily reading "The
Hardy Boys" mystery series.
maybe watching a little "Sea Hunt" on TV.
Harry strides up and hands you a poem.
"Read it. it's called 'Invictus.'"
(audience laughs)
"But why?"
"It builds character."
"Out of the night that covers me.
black as the pit from pole to pole.
I thank whatever gods may be
for my unconquerable soul.
In the fell clutch of circumstance.
I have not winced nor cried aloud.
Under the bludgeonings of chance.
my head is bloody but unbowed.
Beyond this place of wrath and tears
looms but the horror of the shade
and yet the menace of the years
finds and shall find me unafraid.
It matters not how strait the gate.
how charged with punishments the scroll.
I am the master of my fate.
I am the captain of my soul."
When Harry was working
his way through UCLA
washing dishes at
fraternities and sororities.
he decided that he was gonna
run for Student Body President.
Those were different times.
Anti-Semitism was not in the shadows.
There were restrictive
covenants and deeds.
Some schools had quotas.
private clubs had Jews
not allowed policies.
anti-Semitic slogans
and jokes were common.
No one who was Jewish had ever been
elected Student Body President of UCLA.
The other side smeared Harry. his heritage
and just said terrible.
terrible things about him.
Harry in despair went
to see the campus Rabbi.
"What should I do. Rabbi?" he asked.
The Rabbi said one word.
a word that carried
Harry through the rest
of his life. "Fight."
Harry the dishwasher
won by a good landslide.
(anxious trumpet music)
(explosions booming)
It was 1944. the survival
of America was at stake.
Harry enlisted in the
Marine Corps and soon
found himself in Officer's
Training in Quantico. Virginia.
Harry and three of his Marine
buddies are sent to the Pacific.
One is killed. one loses
an eye and one a leg.
For Harry. it meant Okinawa.
More than 200.000 perished
in the 82-day struggle.
twice the number of
Japanese lost at Hiroshima
and more American blood than
had been shed at Gettysburg.
(anxious violin. trumpet music)
It's May 3rd. 1945.
Harry is wounded both ways by bullets
from a machine gun shooting
Dum Dum exploding rounds.
He's able to like flat
in a small depression
of dirt while ordinance
flies in both directions.
He slows the bleeding by using
his belt and clothing as tourniquets.
Through that long night alone. he hears
"Marine. tonight you die.
Marine. tonight you die."
At dawn. two guys run
through hell to get him.
They dropped him several times
sliding down embankments.
trying to escape. trying to stay alive
and this is where we remember that Harry
is from East LA and proud of it.
His friends were working class Latinos.
Jews. Asians. Italians.
Irish. you name it.
The guys that saved his life
were the Martinez cousins.
He didn't know them. but he knew them.
They were just like his buddies
from the old neighborhood.
The greatest guys in the world.
(anxious violin tones)
(somber trumpet music)
Harry had spent about a year
at the Naval Hospital in San Diego.
His weight went up from
110 to a healthy 175.
He had a limp and he had a cane.
One day. he was playing pool
with one of his buddies.
Harry said "Hey. do you know
any girls I could meet?"
His friend said "Well you
know. I'm going on a date
with this girl and I'll ask
if she has any friends."
Well. this car drives
up and Bern is sitting
in the front seat with
Harry's friend who's driving.
Harry opens the door. looks at Bern.
looks at his date in the back seat
and he sits in the front seat.
(audience laughs)
Is anyone surprised?
And from that day forward.
he knew he was going to marry her.
- When I first met Harry.
he was on crutches.
He was this handsome Marine
and what could be more
romantic than a handsome
Marine on crutches to an 18 year old girl?
It was after about five or six times
that I had gone out with Harry.
I said "What do you want
to do with your life?"
And he said without a minute's hesitation.
"Oh. I want to help people."
And he said. "So I'm
gonna go to law school
and acquire the tools that
I'll need to do that."
My background was living in Boyle Heights
during the Depression.
growing up very poor.
My father never had a permanent job.
In fact. most of the time
he didn't have a job at all.
He was a mechanic and they
were not hiring mechanics
and so there were six
children and sometimes
it was lean pickings when it came to food
and I felt poor
and so when I went to UCLA
the semester I met Harry.
I couldn't believe how
beautiful those homes
were around UCLA and I thought to myself
you know. I'd really like one of those.
So when Harry said he
wanted to help people
and I'm thinking about
those beautiful houses.
it didn't seem to me. as
naive as I was. that maybe
helping people was not such
a money-making proposition.
That maybe those houses would be out
of range with Harry
working on helping people.
But I thought it was such an unusual thing
for him to say and when I
dated him more and more.
I realized that I would
probably never meet
anybody as unique as
this man and so that's
when I decided that maybe
this was the guy for me.
(up tempo Jewish style wedding music)
Harry took any case that
came through the door
and I mean any case. he
did wills for maybe $10.
Never thought about billable hours.
just whatever they could pay.
I remember Harry coming
home with a package
of chicken legs or we got a free tire.
It never occurred to him to limit himself
to people of position. people of influence
and that's when he first
embarked on the idea of
trying to find a way for the
little guy to be represented.
- In the late 50s. I got to hanging around
with what was then the neighborhood gang.
My mother's optometrist
was Dr. Edward Lamar
and every afternoon
from about 2:00 to 4:00.
he'd put an out to lunch sign
and him and his receptionist would
basically have a lovemaking
session in the afternoons
with their lunch and
so we knew that the car
wasn't going anywhere
for at least two hours.
So we actually went joyriding twice
before the third time. we got caught.
Detectives came that evening to the house
and told my dad that they
knew that I was in the car
and after my dad got through straightening
me out with his belt.
we had to go to court
and that's when I met
Harry and he was hard.
I never met somebody that
could scare me like he did.
I still remember one thing he said
that just kind of stuck with
me and that was that if that's
the kind of life I wanted to
lead. then I wasn't a very
good person and that they
should throw the book at me.
But if I wanted to change.
then the change had to be with me.
It couldn't be anybody else
and I couldn't blame anybody else
and my father made the
comment that he was a Marine
and he was a combat Marine
and a decorated Marine
and that Marines didn't
put up with any nonsense.
So that put the idea in my head that maybe
these Marines were a pretty
tough outfit to belong to.
I wanted to be a Marine if
they could make you that tough.
- It was when Jim Corman. the Congressman
who was very close to
Harry said to him one day.
he said. "You know.
you'd make a fine judge."
And he said "I'm going to try
to see whether that's possible."
Pat Brown. who was Governor Brown
was impressed with my husband.
He liked what Harry was doing
and so it just happened
there was an opening.
Harry first became a
Municipal Court Judge.
One year later. he was appointed
to be a Superior Court Judge.
He was appointed to the District Court
by President Lyndon Johnson.
(gunfire clacking)
(explosion booms)
Harry was torn when it came to Vietnam.
He felt that everybody should serve
but he understood why
others didn't feel that way.
- The War was just heating up
when I got out of high school
and you could go into college.
you could get a deferment
and avoid going in the service at all
and so I took that deferment
and I went to college.
not necessarily because
I wanted to go to college
but because I could get a deferment.
A couple of years down the
line when the War began getting
worse. I decided I had to
take personal responsibility
for my position on the War
and that I had sort of white
privilege going to school
when other kids couldn't.
So I sent in my 2-S
and they made me a 1-A.
They called me for a physical
and I refused to take the
physical and then I was indicted.
When they said "The People
of the United States
of America versus Robert Paul Zaugh."
I felt this huge wave of adrenal fear
jolt me and pass through my body
and once it did. I was not nervous.
The Judge didn't have to
let you defend yourself.
They could just keep it to
"Did you refuse induction or did you not?"
It's a yes or no answer
and that could be the end of your case.
Even though the prosecutor
objected to my presentation.
Pregerson said. "I want to hear
what Mr. Zaugh has to say."
So I spoke for. I don't know. 20 minutes.
He acquitted me of refusing induction
and he convicted me of
refusing to take a physical.
He sentenced me to work
in the national interest.
I told them that I was
working at Peace Press.
that we printed for Angela
Davis. Daniel Ellsberg.
the Communist Party. the
Black Panthers. et cetera
and that that was the
national interest and that's
what I was going to do and
they never challenged that.
I thought perhaps it was my so-called
brilliant defense that
had kept me out of prison.
But what Pregerson said was
that he visits everybody
he sends to prison and
that he went up to Lompoc
to visit a bank robber and he looked on
the prison manifest and he
saw the name of Mike Swartz.
He thought Schwartz was picking
corn in Safford. Arizona.
the minimum security prison
that most resisters were sent to.
It wasn't my argument that got me off.
It was one. he didn't like the conditions
in that prison and two.
he realized how serious
the draft resisters were
about what they were doing
and he decided personally he was not gonna
send any more draft resisters to prison
and lo and behold. I was the next case.
(relaxed guitar music)
- They came home. they had to find a job.
Many of them had been gone
for a number of years.
They hadn't had training
to move into the mainstream
and so many of them
wound up on the streets.
They were homeless and they were needing
help and nobody was giving them help.
So Harry just went crazy over that idea
that you have people
serving. putting their life
on the line. as he saw all these men do.
Marines
and Navy and Army guys
and gals and he said. "How
can you treat them so poorly?"
- In Los Angeles alone. there
were about 24.000 homeless
veterans and he really took
it to heart that these guys
were out on the street and
they and they couldn't get help
and tears came to his eyes.
just showing that he cared
deeply about everyone.
about every veteran who wasn't
being helped in the world.
Harry and I really
connected early on in that.
He found out that I was a Marine.
We are taught to protect those around us.
We become a unit and we
watch each other's back.
which in combat is absolutely essential.
So he identified a building. he found
the people who would give the
down payment on the building.
He really put together
the building blocks of
what became US Vets.
Our workers go out into the streets.
go under the bridges. by the freeways
and when they see an
encampment of homeless people.
they'll say. "Are any of you veterans?"
- Are you a veteran?
You got any vets out here?
And Army. Navy. Marines?
- Army.
- Are you a veteran by any chance?
Are you a United States veteran?
- Once be bring them in. we
assess them. try to determine
what are those things that
led them to homelessness?
- We got guys that just got out
of the military last year. you know?
We have from World War II all the way up.
(plane humming)
The only family they have is
right here. this community.
- You see. it started 35 years ago.
Harry was watching
television and on the news.
the Salvation Army was managing
a homeless shelter. a cold winter shelter.
It was a very bleak and cold winter
and many of the homeless
were dying on the streets.
The city announced that the shelter would
be closed and that the
Salvation Army would cease
to manage it because there
were no more funds left.
They asked my father. "What are
these homeless going to do?"
And he says. "They're gonna probably
have to go back to
sleeping on the streets."
Well. Harry saw that
interview on television
and just within about
an hour after my father
got back to his office. he
got a phone call from Harry
and you know that when you
get a phone call from Harry.
something's about to happen.
something's going to be done
and it's probably gonna
challenge you to do
a lot more than you ever
thought you were gonna do.
The Judge drove him down to Bell.
government land that wasn't being used.
He said. "What could you do with this?"
500 men and women from
that day forward were
housed at this complex
because Harry made it happen.
(relaxed guitar music)
- [Harry] If you want to
meet wonderful people.
kind people. sharing
people. decent people.
you go to a homeless shelter
and you sit down with them.
They'll share whatever they
have with the next person.
They're concerned about others' problems.
There's so much talent there.
We've had lawyers who were homeless.
We've had bankers who were homeless.
We've had NBA basketball players.
We've had a lot of folks that
are just struggling to survive every day.
They come to our place
and we have a total array
of programs to help 'em
get back on their feet.
- When the Pregerson family
asked me to share a few reflections.
I wanted to speak from my
heart and think of what's
the truest thing I can say
to honor this magnificent man
and it occurred to me
it is somewhat ironic
that as a Catholic and
Christian. the person
who most has reminded me
of Jesus on my journey
was a man of Jewish persuasion named Harry
and I had mentioned this to my wife.
my most honest critic. Denise.
She said "No. you're not gonna say that.
First of all. Jesus was a Jew.
You're gonna sound like an ignorant
Catholic boy who doesn't know his history.
You're not gonna say that."
It kinda reminded me of those
moments when you've been
at those events that honor
Harry and as was mentioned.
he has a tendency to kinda go on and on
with his enthusiasm and so finally Bern
pops up and says "Harry. get down.
you're done. get off the stage."
God bless our wives.
Harry recognized that as devastating
as material poverty can be.
it is the disconnection
from a community of care
that most depresses the plights
of our homeless neighbors.
I am convinced that this is
why the individual attention
he devoted to the poor and
powerless surpassed that
which he directed to the
powerful and the elite.
His message to the homeless
was you deserve more
and I believe in you. don't
give up on your dreams.
The message he conveyed
to the powerful was
you need to do more or I won't
believe in you because you'll
be giving up on the dream of
what we must be as a community.
- In 1979. Harry was
nominated to the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals by
President Jimmy Carter.
He went before the Senate
Judiciary Committee for confirmation.
Harry was asked by one of the Senators
and pushed by one of the Senators.
"What would you do. Judge.
if you had a case in
which you had to decide
according to the law or your conscience?"
And Harry really said afterwards to me
and others that that made
him very uncomfortable
to try to answer a question like that
and he finally. because
they pressed him. he finally
said "My conscience is the
product of the 10 Commandments.
the Bill of Rights. the Boy Scout Oath
and the Marine Corps Hymn.
If I had to follow my
conscience or the law.
I would follow my conscience."
Harry could not lie.
Harry had no guile.
He just was what he was.
People would take him for what he was
and I think everybody recognized
that this was a man of
great
honor.
of great morality. of integrity.
(soft piano. violin music)
- I was asked to speak on behalf
of HP's law clerks past and present.
There are over 150 of us
over his 45 years on the Federal bench.
He has sworn most of us
into the Bar and into other positions.
Since he's been a Circuit
Judge. he has taken
the liberty of embellishing
the State Bar Oath.
He adds the promise. which
he makes us all repeat.
"I will never file an oversized brief."
(audience laughs)
He bragged about other people's kids
and shared pictures as
if they were his own.
He took the cane. an
item that some might view
as a symbol of weakness and
made it powerful and fun.
He used to do tricks with his cane.
HP regularly hired female
law clerks from the get-go.
long before many of his colleagues
would even consider such
a hire and if you got
pregnant while you were
working for him. no problem.
Just bring the crib in.
He had it all set up as a nursery.
He was always on the phone.
moving and shaking. wheeling and dealing.
It was so frustrating if
you were trying to keep him
on a deadline or help him get
an opinion out but he taught
us how to get amazing things
done by personal contact.
When he saw a wrong that
needed to be righted.
he gathered the law clerks
and he gave us our marching orders.
Find the law and build
to the right decision.
He said the law is like
going to Builder's Emporium.
figure out what you want to build
and then use the law
as a tool to build it.
And he had amazing legal vision.
His dissent in Sullivan
versus United States in 1985
lamented the failure of the
Court and our government
to recognize the importance of
a party's same-sex marriage.
In 1998 in US versus Lipman.
long before the DACA controversy.
he authored a little-known opinion that
gave legal recognition to
real life on the street.
That it is no surprise that children
brought to this country
illegally by their parents
become as American as the rest of us.
- He was obviously incredibly impactful
as a jurist and I think
for two different reasons.
One. he personified idealism.
The law was there to protect people.
It was infused with values.
equality and fairness
but he also was the consummate pragmatist.
He measured whether something was just
based on its actual effect
on real people's lives.
(relaxed piano music)
- In the mid-80s. it came
to light that the city
of Los Angeles had been
inadequately treating its sewage
and was essentially
dumping everything that
was flushed down a toilet
into Santa Monica Bay.
- The Hyperion Treatment
Plant was not coming close
to meeting the requirements
under the Clean Water Act.
We had a dead zone in the
middle of Santa Monica Bay.
We had sewage spills closing the beaches
even in the height of
summer and people were
just sick and tired of
the poor water quality.
It was very much under the radar.
Then Assemblyman Tom Hayden held hearings.
Then all of a sudden. the sorry state
of sewage became front page news.
Judge Pregerson had
been the District Judge
who had been presiding
over the enforcement case.
It then got put on hold for
many. many years and by the time
it reopened. he was an Appellate
Court Judge but he kept
on the case because he
already had the experience.
He required all of us to go on a tour
of the Hyperion Treatment
Plant and he made sure
that everybody got up close and personal
to what's known as the headworks.
where there are bar screens that screen
out the crazy large items
and things that people dump
into sewers down manholes
and flush down the toilets.
It's the most odorful area.
- [Mark] We ended up
meeting once a quarter.
Judge Harry Pregerson presided
to run those meetings.
- Stuck in a room having
to go through everything.
we started to develop
some honest relationships.
Being able to ask questions. you know.
"Would you let your daughter go swim
in the beach out near the plant?"
And the answer was no.
- He was so down earth and so folksy
and he just had this incredible way
of making everybody in
that room feel at ease
and also feel that their
voice was important.
We I think realized.
somewhat to our horror.
that we had approached talking about
the men and women of the
Public Works Department
as if the folks who went
to work at the sewage
treatment plant went there
every morning to manufacturer
sewage for the joy of
dumping it in the ocean
as opposed to it being
hardworking men and women
who were dealing with
a river of human waste
coming at them 24 hours a
day that they hadn't been
given the resources they
needed to deal with adequately.
(soft piano. trumpet music)
I think Judge Pregerson
and his very humanity
in forcing us to come together
as people to figure out
what could be done as
opposed to fighting in the
traditional sense really brought
the best out of all of us.
- We hear the term activist judge.
That doesn't really encompass
the activist judge that
Harry Pregerson was.
He taught us it's not
just what you do in law
with your hands in the
opinions that you write
but it's what you do with your
feet outside the courtroom.
When a freeway going through
South Los Angeles was going
to uproot low income families.
he stopped it in its tracks.
The first time in the history
perhaps of this nation
that a judge stopped an
infrastructure project
like that out of justice. to
make sure that something that
was supposed to serve all of
us did not leave anyone behind.
- The Century Freeway was planned
deliberately to go right
through the urban area
and in doing so. it would destroy
approximately 8.000 housing units.
We were very young. still very green
and trying to figure out what
public interest law could be about.
Judge Pregerson understood
the need to act quickly
and Judge Pregerson kept
going back to Caltrans
and saying "You need to do a better job
of addressing the problems of blight."
He continued the injunction
in effect for seven years.
Judge Pregerson clearly
understood that a very robust
mitigation plan was going
to be the optimum solution.
He delivered that message
and that was critical
to getting both the Federal and the State
government to agree to a plan that was
going to cost hundreds
of millions of dollars.
The settlement provided that
roughly half the cost of the
freeway was going to be put
into the mitigation measures.
Pregerson was more
responsible than anybody
for establishing the
Apprenticeship Program.
You should have certain numbers of women.
you should have certain
numbers of the minority.
You should try to have as many people
from the impacted area as possible.
That proved to be extremely difficult
because a lot of people
that you would want
to get those jobs didn't have the skills.
Pregerson said "Well. let's
have an Apprenticeship Program
where we teach these people
the skills from the beginning.
how to hit a hammer into a nail.
then go up from there
and drive the bulldozer."
(bulldozer rumbles)
He had a great concern for minorities.
Maybe it was his Jewish background.
that he felt he was a minority religiously
and that the Jewish community was one
of many minority groups as he grew up
and so he felt concerned
for other minority groups.
I'm not sure where he got that.
(relaxed trumpet music)
- This is a letter from a Congressman.
Chuck Holifield of the
19th District in California
and he writes to my husband
on September 11th. 1945.
"Dear Harry. I rejoice with you
in the restoration of your Commission.
The most important thing
in this whole affair
is that you've proven your ability
to overcome what seemed to
be a very great tragedy."
Oh. where to begin?
There's no question that my
husband suffered from PTSD.
I've known it. Harry has known
it and you could say well.
he certainly suffered in the battlefield.
He had these severe wounds in Okinawa
but by far the greatest
suffering that my husband had
was when he was in Quantico. Virginia
in the Officer's Training Facility
to become a Second Lieutenant
in the Marine Corps.
When Harry and his friend
Mike graduated from the ROTC
program at UCLA. they were
then sent to Quantico.
They were absolutely shocked
by the outrageous racism.
bigotry.
anti-Semitism that would permeate
every aspect of their military life there.
Right after they had taken an exam.
they were called into
the office of an officer
who they considered not very
friendly towards Jews and told
that they had been found
to have cheated on the exam
and of course they denied it
and then the officer said.
"Well then now that you've denied it.
you're not only a cheat but you're liars."
Just before graduation.
they were called in
and told they were going to
be dishonorably discharged.
That was probably the greatest
pain that Harry's ever known.
The day that they received
their dishonorable discharges.
Harry decided that he would enlist
the very next day in the
Marine Corps as a Private.
He was going into that War.
And then a strange thing happened.
Evidently there were enough people
in high places who said
this is terrible travesty.
what was done to these two boys.
Harry was told
that he would get back his commission
and it would be a field commission.
But what happened was he was severely
wounded with these badly mangled legs.
The doctor came to see
him and he said. "Son.
one of the requirements is
you're going to have to walk.
You're gonna have to walk."
And so
Harry got up
and he walked.
He walked about 10 steps
and the doctor had a
wheelchair waiting for him and
he got his commission back
and so. this wound that Harry suffered
was rectified and yet it wasn't.
He never wanted to talk about this.
He didn't tell our children
for years and years
because he felt it was a
stain on his character.
One of the things that Harry learned
from this experience was that
a little person like Harry
who was barely out of his
teens when this event happened.
a little person who had no
power and had no network.
no resource. no person who could help him
was totally at the mercy
of whatever powers might be
and so I think Harry learned
that one of the things he
needed to do was to get power.
to have some voice and
then to start networking.
I'll never forget his last words.
"I'm so sorry.
I regret so much that I can
no longer help anybody."
- I'm gonna bring it home.
When I was eight years
old. my grandfather gave me
a stone with the inscription
"Never. never. ever quit."
Being eight. I didn't have
anything yet to quit from.
(audience laughs)
When I was 10 years old.
he bought me the book
"How to Win Friends and Influence People."
Win friends?
Influence people?
I was just focused on trying
to be like Michael Jordan.
As I got older. my grandpa
continued to buy me books.
Autobiographies of Abraham Lincoln.
speeches of Winston Churchill
and of course. Strunk's
"Elements of Style."
One summer. we went through
this book cover to cover.
He would call me each Sunday
and say without any introduction.
"Turn to page 57."
(audience laughs)
During one weekend session
that I will never forget
because it was a particularly
beautiful summer day.
I asked him if we could
skip that day's session.
Grandpa. I said. "It's a beautiful day.
I want to go outside and have
fun with the other kids."
He said "Brad. let me tell you something.
Fun is bullshit."
(audience laughs)
And I'll never forget
that but it was ironic
coming from someone who
loved to make people laugh
and even at 12 years old. I
knew what he really meant.
Don't waste time. work every day
towards bettering yourself
and strive to be better.
In his later years. I went with him
to many dinners and charity
events and at those events.
he would be seated at a
table and a stranger would
inevitably approach him
and introduce themselves.
He would slowly extend his hand.
They would shake and suddenly the stranger
was confronted with a Kung Fu
grip they could not escape.
The crippling grip continued
as pleasantries were exchanged
while the stranger pretended
everything was normal.
The handshake would continue an unusually
long period of time where this stranger
would finally begin to smile or laugh.
I'm sure thinking this crazy old judge
is squeezing the crap out
of my hand and won't let go.
Eventually grandpa would release his grip
and a conversation or rather
a history lesson would ensue.
"Where do you live? Near
downtown. near Pershing Square?
Do you know about General Pershing?"
(audience laughs)
Soon contact information was requested
and then exchanged and then
the stranger unknowingly
had enlisted as a member
of grandpa's army.
The truth is that all the
good deeds he was able
to accomplish were not the
result of his efforts alone.
No. there was an army of people who stood
and fought with him
who began as strangers.
who were brought in with a Kung Fu grip
and soon became lifelong friends.
But grandpa wasn't afraid
to take bold action.
inspiring others to join him and they did
because they knew he was
fighting the good fight.
He was a good man and he
would never. never. ever quit.
Thank you.
(audience applauds)
(somber trumpet music)
- [Narrator] In his last days.
Harry knew his work was done.
That it was time for others
to carry on his legacy.
His message was we have to
make this world a better place.
We have to leave it in better
shape than when we entered it.
"God puts us here to take care
of each other." he once said.
And I really believe that.
(soft piano music)
(audience applauding)
- I grew up in East LA.
It was a wonderful place.
In my high school.
the students' parents came from
over 50 countries
around the world.
You know. we all got along.
We were like brothers and sisters.
People worked together.
they respected each other.
I've looked at people
that way. that they're all
important.
That they all have so
much goodness within them.
It's been a great journey
for me. it's not finished.
(audience applauds)
I guess that means I should sit down.
(audience laughs)
But I just want to say this.
As a country.
we have a great future.
We have great strength.
we have great resources.
But we need to come together.
We need to embrace each
other as brothers and sisters
and we need
to devote so much of our resources
to educating our children and
the parents of our children.
Every child that is here
today. every child born here
and every child who is brought here
is a precious asset
and the wealth of our country
is in the minds of our people.
The other thing I want to say. and I'll
probably get half the people
in this room mad at me but
I feel very good about the future
of our country. and you know why?
Because the women are
gonna take over and run it.
(audience applauds)
- Good ending.
(relaxed trumpet music)